your competition isn't just doing seo
they have a team helping them out so how
do you compete with them when you don't
have a team
well don't worry i'm going to help you
out here hey everyone i'm neil patel and
today i'm going to break down seven tips
to work 10x faster in seo drive more
traffic and spend less time doing so
before we get started make sure you
subscribe to this channel and if you're
on youtube click the alert notification
on a side note funny enough as i'm
recording this video someone tells me i
do a lot of hand gestures i didn't know
that until now so if you think i do a
lot of hand gestures leave a comment
below telling me if you think i do a lot
of hand gestures and hopefully i'll try
to tone it down a little bit
so let's first get started
and let's start off with technical seo
tip one
only do a few hours per month or a few
hours per week if your website's big
tip two focus on site speed this is
something that can make or break your
seo performance think about it there's
5g people like me are a little bit too
frugal so i won't pay for 5g my phone is
still on 4 g or lte or whatever it's
called but
there's a lot of people even if you're
on 5g you're in an area that doesn't get
5g reception or if you're
having a fast connection your kids are
using that bandwidth because they're
streaming on hulu and netflix so
make sure that your website loads fast
so they don't need as much bandwidth and
you can use tools like ubersuggest pop
in your url check out the site audit
report it breaks down your load time and
what errors you have and it even tells
you for the first tip what errors to fix
in what order and for your site speed
what issues there are and what you need
to fix
now let's dive into content creation
so tip three and this is the first one
for content creation i want you to
create content around areas that you're
already getting some results in
for example if i have a content piece
around instagram a topic that's bringing
traffic for let's say keyword like
getting instagram followers i may want
to prioritize other keywords related to
this topic instead of exploring other
topics like paid ads where i'm not
really getting any traffic
prioritizing is more important than just
doing lots of work aimlessly because if
you do that all you're gonna do is spend
the hours and not really see any
traction like just think of it this way
if google likes your site for certain
topics and your business is related to
those topics do more of that versus
going after other topics that are also
related to your business that google's
not giving you any traction on right one
gets you results quicker
the other one not so much and once you
get the results by doing the first group
you can then eventually go after the
second group
now let's go after internal linking and
let's go to the first tip of that which
is tip four
the same thing with prioritizing my
content applies here
you need to work on reinforcing keywords
around topics that you're already
getting some traction on you'll look at
your existing pages and look for parts
of your content that you can go ahead
and add internal links to to other
relevant pieces of content for for
example if i have a page around content
marketing and somewhere in the page i
mention link building i can go ahead and
turn that part into linking to another
page on my website that is about link
building
and through uber suggests you can see
what pages are getting traction if you
go and put in your url to uber says go
and check out the top pages report if
you haven't checked out the top pages
report make sure you go and do it now
it's my favorite feature and uber
suggests it'll tell you your top pages
so you know which ones to interlink more
to and you would take the most popular
pages and link them to the ones that
aren't as popular when it's relevant to
help juice them up
the next category i want to discuss is
competitive research and this brings me
to tip 5
try and find keywords that smaller
websites are ranking for especially when
you don't have a huge website with a
high domain authority and lots of
backlinks keywords that smaller websites
rank for are typically easier for you to
rank for as well
use the traffic analyzer on ubersuggest
to see what those keywords are for your
competitors so you know to go after them
now i want you to also think about link
building which is the next section and
that brings me to tip six
much like with competitive research the
best opportunities will be probably
found by reverse engineering the
competitors that aren't too big
look your big competitors what they're
doing
doesn't always work for you what works
for wikipedia
isn't going to work for me if i want to
start writing on elephants
no one's really going to read into it
but
if you start focusing down on what's
working on the smaller websites chances
are it'll work for you too
and tip seven look for backlink
opportunities using the backlink
opportunity report in ubersuggest so
here's what's cool about the backlink
opportunity report have you ever just
went out there and just emailed people
being like link to me link to me here's
this cool content link to me and what do
they do no one wants to link to you they
just ignore your emails but the backlink
opportunities report you put in your
domain and you put in a few of your
competitors it'll be like neil
here's linking to a few of your
competitors all the sites that link to
multiple of your competitors but they
don't link to you
see if someone's willing to link to not
just one not just two but three plus of
your competitors the chances are they're
willing to link to you too so then the
backlinks opportunity report shows you
everyone who links your competitors that
doesn't link to you you start reaching
out to those sites and they're more
likely to link back out to you sure you
still got to email them not everyone's
going to respond but you'll have a much
higher success rate now if you want my
company to do that for you and get you
those links you know without you paying
for them or doing anything unethical or
shady check out my ad agency np digital
and if you have any questions leave a
comment below i'm here to help you
either way and if you enjoy the video
like it share it tell the people about
it thank you for watching